# Files

This will cover the basics of what the various files in the root of the project do.

**Please note:** Some of the files listed here are configuration files (e.g. .eslintrc is the Javascript linting config). Since the aim of using these tools is to maintain a consistent coding style/standards across the project, please do not make and commit changes to these files unless it has been agreed as a change by the other FE devs on the team.

### .babelrc

This is a configuration file for [Babel](https://babeljs.io/) which is a Javascript transpiler. In a nutshell, Babel will allow us to write our JS in es6 (ES2015) and it will then transpile this into ES5 so that browsers that do not support es6 features can read it.
In this file, we will tell babel that we want to use Babel with the [ES2015 Preset](http://babeljs.io/docs/plugins/preset-es2015/).

If, for example, you were using this FE as the foundation for a React project, you would add the [React Preset](http://babeljs.io/docs/plugins/preset-react/) to the array of presets in this file so that Babel knows we will be transpiling React JSX syntax.

### .editorconfig

Since there can potentially be multiple devs who will work on the FE of a project, it's important that we try and maintain consistent code style where we can so that we can keep the project from becoming a mish mash of different styles and formats.
For this, we're using [EditorConfig](http://editorconfig.org/) which is essentially a configuration file which determines the code format and style for the project.

Some editors come with native support for editorconfig files (meaning you don't need to do anything for it to work in the project). If yours doesn't ([see here for list](http://editorconfig.org/#download)) then you will need to install a plugin for your text editor for it to work.

For sublime users, the [Sublime EditorConfig Plugin](https://github.com/sindresorhus/editorconfig-sublime/blob/master/readme.md) can be installed via [Package Control](https://packagecontrol.io).

### .eslintrc

This is the configuration file for [ESLint](http://eslint.org). ESLint is used in the project to lint all the Javascript that is written for the project.
This file is an extension of the [sindresorhus eslint](https://github.com/sindresorhus/eslint-config-xo) config with some overriding/custom rules for this project.

### .gitignore

You all know what this file does so I won't explain it's purpose here. It is worth mentioning though that it's common in our projects to have both a project wide .gitignore file in the root of the codebase and also this FE specific .gitignore. This file is for FE specific rules only. It will mostly contain rules to ignore any files that are automatically generated by a task runner (e.g. gulp or npm tasks).

If you do add any functionality to the project that will generate assets automatically when built (e.g. when `gulp build` is ran), please add a rule to the .gitignore file so that it's not committed to Bitbucket as part of the source.

### .stylelintrc

This is a configuration file for [stylelint](https://github.com/stylelint/stylelint) which is being used in this project to lint the CSS.

### gulpfile.js/index.js

This project uses Gulp as the task runner and this file is required by gulp to define the various Gulp tasks for the project.

For task configuration, we are using the Node.js `require-dir` helper to import task definitions from `./gulp/tasks/` into this file.

Please ensure that you do not add any task configurations to this file. Please add them as a new file in `./gulp/tasks`. It will then be automatically imported into the main gulpfile.

### icons.yml

This file contains title and description data for each SVG image that is being used in the project as part of the icon spritesheet. It allows us to provide information on each icon which will then become part of the final compiled SVG sprite (see `tasks.md` for more detailed information on this). It is useful for accessibility so effort should be made to always keep this file up to date.

This file is **not automatically maintained**. Each time you add a new SVG icon, you will need to update this file with a title and description for each new icon you add.

